Add a Community Certification process section (#729)
NethServer/ns8-core: docs/modules/certification.md

---
layout: default
title: Application Community Certification
nav_order: 1
has_children: false
---

# Application Community Certification

## From ideas to applications

Before creating an application for NethServer 8, consider if it's really
necessary. Sometimes, a simple documentation page is sufficient and
requires much less effort. When trying out new ideas, make sure to
document every step and comment in a [community discussion under the
Feature category](http://community.nethserver.org/c/feature).

If the idea gains traction, then it's time to think about a new
application. When creating one, ensure the following requirements are met:

> 

Reviewer: Add a paragraph to check that the application is compliant with the laws of the countries where it will be used, or at least if and how it complies with local laws. Eg. GDPR, NIS2, DORA, SOX

  App](http://community.nethserver.org/c/app) category.

- If desired, submit a pull request for the [NethForge repository
  metadata](https://github.com/NethServer/ns8-nethforge/) to have the
  application listed on the Software Center page. Be sure to include a
  link to the community announcement. If you prefer to setup a personal
  application repository, look at the [Software
  repositories](../../core/software_repositories/) page.

Before being included in NethForge, applications must pass a review
process. The review process leading to inclusion in NethForge is described
in the next section.

## Certification process

The Community Certification ensures that an application is functional,
secure, maintained, and provides sufficient information about the
developer and the software it relies on.

Submitting a pull request (PR) for the [NethForge repository
metadata](https://github.com/NethServer/ns8-nethforge/) starts the
Community certification process for the application.

After approval, at any time, the application can be removed from NethForge
by the NethForge repository maintainers. For example, this can happen if

> the current version is no longer maintained but has significant security

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the current version is no longer maintained and/or has significant security
```

   Manual](https://github.com/NethServer/ns8-docs/) page with a PR. In
   both cases the metadata.json documentation URL will point to the latter
   with an application summary available from there.

0. Integrate the `README.md` file in the code repository with
   documentation for developers and the support team. A detailed
   description of container volumes, environment variables, and special
   maintenance or customization procedures is very important. If something
   is still missing, document it for instance under a "Roadmap",
   "Limitations", "TODO" section. Provide also a link to your Community
   profile to contact you.

0. The application and its parts must have no licensing conflicts.
   Licenses must permit unlimited distribution of the application.

### 2. Platform compliancy

0. The implementation of platform-defined behaviors, where present, must work
   correctly. Pay attention to:

    - Application Creation and Removal
    - Clone and Move
    - Backup and Restore
    - Change of cluster Email notification settings
    - HTTP routes management
    - TLS certificates management
    - Bind to one or more User Domains
    - Node firewall management

>     - Node ports allocation

Reviewer 2: I will remove these steps because not every module will need to use or implement these features. Instead, I suggest making the correct implementation of the following features mandatory:
- Installation/Removal
- Updates
- Backup/restore
- Clone/move

> 0. Avoid rootfull applications and require minimum authorizations.

Reviewer 2: Let be more strict and assertive:
```suggestion
0. Applications must avoid requiring root privileges and should operate with the minimum necessary authorizations. Exceptions may be requested but must be justified and approved on a case-by-case basis 
```
